CoC: Add Actionable Guide to Maintaining our Standards (#3680)
withastro/astro: CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md

Examples of behavior that contributes to creating a positive environment
include:

> - Using welcoming and [inclusive language](https://developers.google.com/style/inclusive-documentation)

Reviewer: I like the idea of linking to an example, but is this the best one? Hard to map "inclusive documentation" back to "inclusive speech", which is more what this document is focused on.

(Separately, linking to this somewhere in the docs repo would still make sense)

- Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences
- Gracefully accepting constructive criticism

> - Focusing on the bigger picture: what is best for the community?

Reviewer: not sure if this change adds much, I'd recommend removing.

(for context: On governance docs I'm a big nitpicker/stickler on small wording changes that are more for style than substance. In this case, this line is actually taken from a well-regarded CoC template that I wouldn't want to deviate from unless we had a good reason/goal in mind.)

- Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a
  professional setting

### Guide to Maintaining These Standards

> When interacting in our community, strive to maintain a friendly, empathetic tone. This includes, but is not limited to, interactions on Discord, GitHub, and Twitter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When interacting, strive to maintain a friendly, empathetic tone. This includes, but is not limited to, interactions on Discord, GitHub, and Twitter.
```

redundant :)

> "Tone" refers to word, punctuation, and conversational choices that determine how your message _feels_ to others.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
"Tone" refers to word, punctuation, emojis, gifs, and conversational choices that determine how your message _feels_ to others.
```

There were many times when I was trolled by someone's use of a reaction emoji or witnessed people offended by a gif that was added to a message. Think about, for instance, any emoji with innuendos or gifs known to be sexist/racist.

Compare these two responses:

_Question:_ Hey, I'm beginning with Astro. I tried to use `document` in my Astro page, but it says that the object doesn't exist. How can I manipulate the DOM?

| Answer 1 | Answer 2 |
| -- | -- |

> | You can't manipulate the DOM from an Astro file. Astro is a static site builder. | Hey, welcome to the community! <br/> Astro pages and components run on the server. Because of that, you won't have access to everything you're used to when writing JavaScript for the web. You're on the right track, though - you can access `document` from a `<script>` tag in your Astro file. <br/> Check out the docs here, and let me know if you need any more help! https://docs.astro.build/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#client-side-scripts |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| You can't manipulate the DOM from an Astro file 😂 Astro is a static site builder. | Hey, welcome to the community! <br/> Astro pages and components run on the server. Because of that, you won't have access to everything you're used to when writing JavaScript for the web. You're on the right track, though - you can access `document` from a `<script>` tag in your Astro file. <br/> Check out the docs here, and let me know if you need any more help! https://docs.astro.build/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#client-side-scripts |
```

> Answer 2 took more effort, but it made a significant difference. Answer 2

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Answer 2 took more effort, but it made a significant difference. This response:
```
Nit on repetitive word choice

> Answer 2 took more effort, but it made a significant difference. This response:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Answer 2 centered the user's feelings and as such, took more effort. However, it made a significant difference. This response:
```

^ my intention here is to also emphasize the general intent behind crafting fluffy messages -> deep care for user's feelings/wellbeing.

- welcomed the new member into the community

> - used explanation points (conveying willingness to help) and friendly word choices

Author: Hahaha :)

- made them feel validated for asking the question ("You're on the right track")

> - provided an explanation that fit the person who asked the question. They specified that they were a beginner, so _Answer 2_ sought to explain things to someone who might not understand the implications of "static site builder".

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- provided an explanation that fit the person who asked the question: _Answer 2_ sought to explain things to a self-described beginner, who might not understand the implications of "static site builder"
```

The pattern seems to be not including punctuation at the end, but this is one is multiple sentences. Here's a potential reworking if you care about establishing that pattern. (nit: if keeping the end punctuation, we generally put it inside the quotation marks in docs, at least.)

> - made it clear that the community is willing to help and that asking is not a burden ("let me know if you need any more help!")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- made it clear that the community is willing to help and that asking is not a burden ("let me know if you need any more help!")
- equipped them with a next step ("Check out the docs here"), while at the same time familiarized them onto our docs page
```

- made it clear that the community is willing to help, and asking is not a burden ("let me know if you need any more help!")

Our community prides itself on being _positive_, _helpful_, and _inclusive_. If you have these goals in mind when interacting in the community, you're on the right track!

- To stay positive:

>   - Make it clear that you appreciate the other person's message

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Make it clear that you appreciate the other person's message: even complaints can be valuable feedback
```
Just a thought! Take or leave it.

Also, I don't appreciate EVERY message... (insulting, crossing the line etc.) though it probably goes without saying, "We don't appreciate abuse, though!" Still, I see this and it stands out to me as "every message should be appreciated" and... that's not the case.

I'm trying to think if there's an appropriate substitute for "message" ("concerns"? No, sometimes they're just support questions or observations... "participation"? No, same as messages... "appreciate the other person getting involved?" ... "That you welcome the opportunity to ... help them? ... address their issue?" I don't have anything good at the moment, and am probably overthinking this. Just something that stood out.)

>   - Use exclamation points and emojis when friendly intention wouldn't be clear otherwise

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Hm, I'm not sure recommending this will be helpful. I've noticed some community members abusing emojis to polish a turd, so to speak. This more bubbly approach also isn't _required_ to uphold positivity and inclusivity, especially since it doesn't match everyone's communication style. I'd suggest removing, though you're on the right track 😉

Reviewer 5: Yep, I think I agree here, I’ve also seen “Your website sucks! 🤪” type posts where somehow the emoji is supposed to make this seem like a funny thing.

>   - Use exclamation points and emojis when friendly intention wouldn't be clear otherwise

Reviewer 3: I like this revision! Speaks to my concerns above

>   - Use exclamation points and emojis when friendly intention wouldn't be clear otherwise

Author: Thanks @bholmesdev and @sarah11918 for the contributions!

>   - During conflict: maintain respect, avoid aggression, and avoid involving personal personal pronouns ("you").

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - During conflict: maintain respect, avoid aggression, and avoid making it personal ("you").
```

  - Set boundaries. Feel free to step away from a conversation when you feel frustrated.

- To stay helpful:

>   - Seek to understand the expectations of others. How do they seem to _want_ you to respond?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

This sentence feels a bit vague to me... I think the following bullet (establish a knowledge level) does a better job summarizing this idea of "meeting people where they are." I'd suggest removing, though it could be revised!

>   - When explaining something, first establish the knowledge level of the person you're responding to. Match your explanation to that level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - When explaining something, first establish the knowledge level of the person you're responding to. Match your explanation to that level. A good rule of thumb is to assume that everyone is a beginner. Your response will most likely be read by others as well!
```

>   - Ask clarifying questions. If you're not sure what the person meant, ask them if you're understanding is correct. If you're not sure what they already know, ask them if they're aware of a concept.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Ask clarifying questions. If you're not sure what the person meant, ask them if you're understanding is correct. If you're not sure what they already know, ask them if they're aware of a concept.
  - Link to relevant documentation, chat threads, or other resources whenever possible.
```
This feels like a useful addition for support in particular!

Reviewer 4: So as not to collide with another suggested change: "... ask them if YOUR understanding is correct."

>   - Ask clarifying questions. If you're not sure what the person meant, ask them if your understanding is correct. If you're not sure what they already know, ask them if they're aware of a concept.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Ask clarifying questions. If you're not sure what the person meant, ask them if your understanding is correct. If you're not sure what they already know, ask them if they're familiar with a concept.
```

^ just in case someone takes this literally and asks "are you aware of...?"

- To stay inclusive:

  - Refer to someone by their expressed name. Don't use your own nicknames for someone (unless you're friends with established trust).

>   - Refer to someone by their expressed pronouns. If this wasn't expressed, use `they/them`.

Reviewer 5: Love these changes Dan! Thanks so much for putting in this effort.

Just wondered if it would be help for people not familiar for language or other reasons to clarify this.

```suggestion
  - Refer to someone by their expressed pronouns. If this wasn't expressed, use [`they/them`](http://pronoun.is/they/them), which in English can be used to refer to people of any gender.
```

Reviewer 5: Otherwise LGTM!
